I read this pertinent article earlier
http://chronicle.com/article/Graduate-School-in-the-Huma/44846/ ,
which lamented the false beliefs many graduate students have: that
they, like the thousands of other applicants, will gain a tenured
position in a now diminuishing number of roles; that, unlike all those
others that are also encouraged and have achieved good grades, will
succeed.

I have to admit those are the same beliefs I have. These beliefs are
to a certain extent necessary, however. Without that self-belief, even
if somewhat over-optimistic, people fail to attempt, and if they fail
to attempt they are already doomed to failure. But without caution,
especially if you are inclined to rushing towards the bosom of
academia, you may be in for a particularlly bad fall.

That inclination to return to academia's bosom, as the article states,
does come from my uneasy transition to 9-5 workdays. My work was
praised in academia, but now the culture and tasks of the private
sector do not lead to the same level of praise, or even the present me
with the kind of tasks on which I was previously praised. Even though
I am inclined towards a return to academia, my recent experience has
also made me a little cautious.

Now I've worked, and stopped living off government handouts, I've no
longer been able to see my future in a fuzzy, "it'll be okay somehow",
perspective. I've had to ask myself: who wants the skills you have,
who'll pay you for them, can you live off that? Even though these are
in my mind when I think of returning to academia, the emotional appeal
of praise in an environment I am apt at excelling in still tempts me
to say: "fuck it, a Masters in Politics--what could go wrong?"

And of course, universities will be more than willing to take a
student willing to pay, who may well be suitable for low paid work in
the future, aiding the department, willing to ignore the scarcity of
opportunies in academia for them. But the article, as those on
ycombinator news commented
http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1030437, does ignore a few
benefits of graduate or PHd programmes.




